#summary notes on significant changes between releases
#labels Featured,Phase-Support
#sidebar DeveloperTOC

= 0.2.5-SNAPSHOT =

== Core module ==

== REST module ==

 * Added name space prefixes to RDF/XML of {{{/project}}} call
 * Added support for 'get all categories' on REST call {{{/allCategories}}}

== Web Module ==

Added Python script to backup all projects based on their RDF/XML representation.

= 0.2.4 =

== Web module ==

=== Add project W3C widget ===

Separate W3C widget named 'doapcreator' included that can generate a DOAP RDF/XML file from a web form and post it to Simal's REST API. See DoapCreatorWidget for more info.

= 0.2.3-SNAPSHOT =

== Core ==

=== Jena backend ===

 * Jena is updated to version 2.6.2. to be compatible with Joseki and to allow use of other Jena backend types
 * Added support to SDB and TDB backends. See [http://jena.sourceforge.net/documentation.html Jena documentation] for details. The default backend is TDB.
 * Backend used at runtime can be configured using the property {{{ simal.db.type }}}
 * All properties (as defined in the property files) can now be overruled by using a system property (eg. at startup: {{{-Dsimal.db.type=TDB }}})

=== SPARQL Endpoint ===

 * Added JOSEKI SPARQL server (see http://www.joseki.org/)
 * This endpoint is accessible as described in http://joseki.org/protocol.html. The endpoint is on {{{/joseki/sparql}}} and only supports the {{{SPARQL/Query Protocol}}}, not the {{{SPARQL/Update Protocol}}}.

=== Add Multiple Projects from Ohloh.net ===

The Command Line interface can now accept a filename instead of a project ID, e.g.

{{{
importOhloh -f FILENAME
}}}

This file contains one Ohloh project ID per line (or a comment if the line starts with '#'). All projects listed in this file will be imported into the database. For example:

{{{
################################
# Projects to import from Ohloh
################################

simal

# Apache projects
apache
forrest
}}}