#summary Information for new committers

= Introduction =

If you are a new committer on Simal then this document should help you get started.

First of all congratulations on being voted in as a committer. Having commit rights does not give you any more authority in the project, however it does indicate that you understand the direction the project is heading in and that you have demonstrated an ability to support the community. You are now able to provide contributions on a commit-then-review basis and, perhaps more importantly, you are able to review-then-commit other community members contributions.

You also have a binding vote in the project. This should not be used to give you power in the community, it is intended to be used to ensure all votes properly reflect the wishes of the community as a whole. As such you are expected to listen to community members and vote in their best wishes.

The rest of this document describes a few small tasks you need to undertake as a new committer.

= Familiarisation =

You are probably already familiar with our project's [http://simal.oss-watch.ac.uk/contributor/governance/index.html governance model], however, we recommend that you review it again. It is this governance model that ensures each member of our community is adequately represented and that the project is managed in an open and transparent way.

= Documentation =

There are a few files you should edit as soon as your commit privileges have been granted.

You should add yourself to the [http://simal.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/simal/src/documentation/content/rdf/simal.xml Simal DOAP file]

You should also note your addition to the team in the [http://simal.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/simal/status.xml status] file, ensuring you add yourself as a new developer if you are not already there.