#summary Steps to go through for a release
#labels Phase-QA

= Releases and iterations =

Currently we use iterations of two weeks. At the end of each iterations a new build is performed and deployed on http://registry.oss-watch.ac.uk. A binary release will only be made every second iteration, i.e. monthly.

This document describes how to build a release.

= Timelines and keeping the community informed =

A binary release is made every second iteration. This means that every second iteration must assign sufficient velocity points to the release to ensure this process is fully implemented. We cannot cut corners on this process as this is where our final quality control checks are performs.

It is likely that every second iteration will focus only on refactoring, testing and bug fixing in order to ensure the release is ready.

The timeline for communicating the release plan to the community is:
  * Two weeks before release date
    * Notify simal-contributors@googlegroups.com of the intention to implement a code freeze in X days (3 days before release day)
  * One week before release date
    * Notify simal-contributors@googlegroups.com of the intention to implement a code freeze in X days (3 days before release day)
    * Notify simal-contributors@googlegroups.com and simal-users@googlegroups.com of binary release available for testing
  * Three days before release day
    * Notify simal-contributors@googlegroups.com that code freeze has started
  * Day of release
    * Notify simal-contributors@googlegroups.com and simal-users@googlegroups.com of binary release available
    * Notify simal-contributors@googlegroups.com that code freeze has ended

In a future improvement of this release process we will move the release code into a branch for the period of the release iteration, this will allow people to continue to develop new features for future releases. However, at present the community is small enough to not require such overhead. In the meantime all commits for new features that introduce code quality issues will be rejected during a release iteration.

= Determine release version number =

The version numbers of Simal releases are of the form {{{x.y.z}}} or {{{<major>.<minor>.<micro>}}}. The {{{<major>}}} version number is only increased when a large amount of new functionality is added. In this case the new release version number will be {{{(x+1).0.0}}}. The {{{<minor>}}} version number is only increased when some functionality is added to the new release, in which case the new release version number will be {{{x.(y+1).0}}}. When only bugfixes are part of the new release there will be a so-called point release. The version number of the new release in this case will be {{{x.y.(z+1)}}}. Currently, all components (core, rest and webapp) get the same version number.

= Pre-Requisites =

Before a release can be made a number of requirements must be met.

 * Check all CodeAuditing reports are satisfactory (satisfactory means there are no warnings from the code audit tools)
 * All [http://code.google.com/p/simal/issues/list?can=7&q=&colspec=ID+Type+Status+Priority+Milestone+Summary&x=priority&y=milestone&cells=tiles unverified issues] have been verified by someone other than the owner of that issue
 * All source code has been formatted according to the project's coding standards
 * All documentation has been updated to reflect the new features in this release

= Code Freeze =

Send a mail to the developer and user lists stating that the project has entered a state of code freeze, that is no changes will be made other than preparation changes for the next release until the new release has been tagged.

= Change src version numbers to reflect release build =

First we must correctly set the version number. This means removing the postfix "-SNAPSHOT" in the pom.xml of all the modules and possibly changing the version number (usually when a point release will be made). 

 * in {{{pom.xml}}} change {{{<version>x.y.z[-POSTFIX]</version>}}}
 * in {{{src/main/resources/default.simal.properties}}} change {{{simal.version=x.y.z[-POSTFIX]}}}
 * in {{{status.xml}}} change the version number and release date to the release to be built.

In addition we need to change the dependency entries for other Simal modules in both the rest and webapp modules.

At this early stage we will release all Simal modules simultaneously and therefore we need to change the {{{pom.xml}}} as described in each module (there is currently no {{{default.simal.properties}}} file in modules other than core).

Commit these changes to SVN.

= Build the Binaries =

For each of the modules build the binaries as follows:

{{{
cd uk.ac.osswatch.ac.uk.simal.core
mvn clean install
mvn assembly:assembly

cd ../uk.ac.osswatch.ac.uk.simal.rest
mvn clean install
mvn package

cd ../uk.ac.osswatch.ac.uk.simal.web
mvn clean package
}}}

Note that the process of building the binaries will run all automated tests against the code.

= Tag the release in SVN =

SVN needs to be tagged with the release information as follows:

{{{
svn copy https://simal.googlecode.com/svn/trunk https://simal.googlecode.com/svn/tags/x.y.z -m "Tag the x.y.z release"
}}}

= Upload to Google Code =

If the previous release is not uploaded to Google Code, this release will be (see the start of this document).
Upload the binaries to the downloads section of Google Code, making them a featured download.

If this is a point release previous point releases should be deleted if possible (they use up the storage quota and can be rebuilt from SVN if people need to do so).

Deprecate the previous release and remove the featured downloads lable from it (but do not delete the release).

= Ensure documentation is published =

Rebuild and [PublishingSiteDocs publish the docs].

= Ensure the demo server is running the latest release =

[UpdatingDemoServer Update the version of Simal] on the demo server

= Change src version numbers in the trunk =

We must now set up SVN trunk for development of the next release. To do this we need to correctly set the version number. 
Usually this will mean incrementing the minor version number, setting the micro version number to '0' and adding the postfix "-SNAPSHOT".

 * in {{{pom.xml}}} change {{{<version>x.y.z</version>}}} to {{{<version>x.(y+1).0-SNAPSHOT</version>}}}
 * in {{{src/main/resources/default.simal.properties}}} change {{{simal.version=x.(y+1).0-SNAPSHOT}}}
 * in {{{status.xml}}} add a new {{{<release>}}} element

In addition we need to change the dependency entries for other Simal modules in both the rest and webapp modules.

= Update the Release Notes =

The ReleaseNotes are used to announce a new release. They are held in the wiki and are used in email and blog announcements.

= Lift Code Freeze and Announce the new Release =

The code freeze on trunk can now be lifted as the release is tagged, so a maintenance branch can be created if any major bug fixes need to be made.

The release should be announced on the user and contributor lists using the ReleaseNotes.

= Test =

Each of the binaries should be tested by as many people, on as many platforms as possible. For each reported test failure a decision must be made whether the issue will need to be patched in a patch release or if it can wait until the next release.

More details on how to test are included in:

 * TestingCoreReleases
 * TestingRestReleases
 * TestingWebReleases

= Patch the release when necessary =

When one or more critical errors are discovered a patch release needs to be created. If no code has been committed to the trunk after the last release this can be done by creating a new release from the trunk by following this document from the start.
If changes have been committed a patch release needs to be created from the tag of the latest release. To do that, first copy the tag to a new branch:

{{{
svn copy https://simal.googlecode.com/svn/tags/x.y.z https://simal.googlecode.com/svn/branches/x.y.z -m "Create patch release branch for the x.y.z release"
}}}

Then patch the critical errors on the branch and create a release from that branch following the procedure in this document. Merge the changes from the branch to the trunk to assure the trunk includes these patches. 