#summary Notes about the 0.2.4 release
#labels Phase-Support,Featured


= Release 0.2.4 =

Released on [http://groups.google.com/group/simal-contributors/browse_thread/thread/2d0aece2852e7bfc# 16/07/2010] and based on 0.2.4-rc1.


= Release 0.2.4-rc1 =

Released for test: [http://groups.google.com/group/simal-contributors/browse_thread/thread/26b469a187ec100d# 17/06/2010]

This release contains a separate widget to [DoapCreatorWidget add a project] to Simal from a separate environment hosted by a [http://incubator.apache.org/wookie Wookie server]. 
Also, this is the first release in which the URLs are stable where possible making it possible to deep link to a project, person or category page.

= Release 0.2.3-rc2 =

Released for test: [http://groups.google.com/group/simal-contributors/browse_thread/thread/2026719cf4579d67# 11/03/2010]

Email addresses are now obfuscated to prevent bot harvesting (Issue 257)

= Release 0.2.3-rc1 =

Released for test: [http://groups.google.com/group/simal-contributors/browse_thread/thread/220eae477b088179# 18/02/2010]

Jena backend to TDB. See [Changelog Changelog] for more details.

= Release 0.2.2 =

Released for test: [http://groups.google.com/group/simal-contributors/browse_thread/thread/964cd179db018f19/17a27dce849077f7?lnk=gst&q=0.2.2#17a27dce849077f7 01/12/2009]

Some of the most important changes in this release:

  * Functionality added to backup the database from the command-line (Issue 157)
  * Added support for XHTML tags in body text; you now can markup data like the description with HTML tags as long as it's valid XML (Issue 179)
  * PIMS imports now support empty cells in the Excell sheets (Issue 254)
  * Labels for homepages are configurable (Issue 191)
  * Support for blogs using foaf:weblog (Issue 32)
  * Search facility for projects and people (Issue 153)
  * Link project imports via rdf:seeAlso (Issue 201)


See also the [http://code.google.com/p/simal/issues/list?can=1&q=Milestone:0.2%20OR%20Milestone:0.3%20Status:Verified%20OR%20Status:Fixed%20modified-after:2008/9/1&sort=modified&colspec=ID%20Type%20Status%20Priority%20Milestone%20Summary%20Modified complete issue list] for this release.

= Previous releases =

== Release 0.2-rc1 ==

Released for test: [http://groups.google.com/group/simal-contributors/browse_thread/thread/7846d35317307437# 25/09/2008]


We are pleased to announce the release of Simal v0.2-rc1

Simal is a framework for building project registries. Using Simal you can quickly collate details about projects and participants. This data can then be accessed via a command line tool for scripting, a RESTful API for mashups or a web application for humans.

This release is a complete rewrite of the 0.1 release which was always intended to be a proof of concept. 0.2 now utilises an RDF repository rather than a flat file system. Consequnetly performance is vastly improved in this release.

Key features include:

- Ability to import DOAP from the local filesystem or a remote URL
- AJAX browsers for finding people or projects
- Fully categorised listings
- Export of RDF data models
- RESTful API

= Installing =

Binary releases: http://simal.oss-watch.ac.uk/userQuickstart.html

Source: http://simal.oss-watch.ac.uk/devQuickstart.html

= Demo =

A live demo of the latest developments can be found at http://simal.16degrees.com.au

= Questions and Feedback =

Assistance is available on our mailing lists, which can be found at 
http://groups.google.com/group/simal-users (for users) and http://groups.google.com/group/simal-contributors (for those wanting to get involved)

Bug reports and feature requests are also welcome, please submit them to our issue tracker at http://code.google.com/p/simal/issues/list